# smart_home_automation
Home automation is the automation process of home appliances and other home functions so that they can be controlled with your phone remotely. The main objective of this project is to interface a Bluetooth (or Wi-Fi) module with TIVA C board at the receiver end, while on the transmitted end, A GUI application on the cell phone sends ON/OFF commands to the receiver where loads (lights and Fans) are connected. By touching the specified location on the GUI, the loads can be turned ON/OFF remotely through the interface. A Smart Home Model is being designed by interfacing HC-05 Bluetooth module with TIVA C TM4C123GH6PM launchpad. An Android phone will be used as the transmitter to send  different commands that will be received by the  microcontroller via UART communication. These commands will be used to turn on and off different device connected with the launchpad. We have used four DC loads (2 fans and 2 LED lights) operating on a minimum of 7-9V. These loads are powered with L298N Motor Driver which is  electrically isolated with the microcontroller through PC817 Octocoupler. To control the speed of the fan, LM35 Precision Centigrade Temperature Sensor is used. When the temperature rises, the  speed of the fan increases that is acheived by increasing the duty cycle of the input provided. While LDR Sensor Module adjusts the brightness of the room according to the intensity of the light. Common Anode Seven Segment Display is used to display the temperature of the room as measured by the LM35 sensor. The duty cycle of the each load is displayed on the UART terminal along with the intensity of light and temperature as measured by LDR Sensor Module and LM35 Precision Centigrade Temperature Sensors respectively.
